hello I'm Martin Dorey and you are
watching adoramatv today I'm going to be
looking at resolution frame rates and
fields of view on the GoPro Hero 3 plus
black edition camera adoramatv presents
capture the action with Martin Dorey all
GoPro cameras have different resolution
frame rate options and a choice of field
of view and some of them are better for
some things than others some are great
for action some give great detail and
some are fantastic for slow motion
knowing which one to use when is the key
to getting great action footage we've
been out on our bikes to demonstrate to
you how each setting can affect your
picture firstly let's talk about
resolution the resolution is the amount
of information that's captured on the
cameras sensor it would affect the size
and the quality of your picture the
higher the resolution the better quality
the picture the lower resolution the
lower the quality now the thing about
resolution is that it's only as good as
the device you're going to be playing it
back on so if you're going to be playing
your videos back on a 4k high-definition
television then you'll want to set the
resolution on your camera for 4k because
the quality will be justified however if
your videos are going to end up on
YouTube or Facebook then you don't need
to shoot it such a high resolution
because all you'll do is use up memory
so you shoot an appropriate resolution
as you can see from this clip the
picture is super crisp and clear with
detail in the blacks and whites and lots
of good color representation in what are
actually a challenging range of colors
this is fantastic quality and great if
you want to speed up footage show it on
a 4k TV or even take high-quality 8
megapixel stills from your footage at
the other end of the scale you can shoot
a resolution of 720 and you've got a
choice of fields of view of narrow
medium and wide and even super wide and
you can shoot at 25 24 50 or 100 frames
a second
now this stuff isn't going to be as good
as the 4k quality but it's going to be
perfectly acceptable for YouTube and
actually is really versatile hi Martin
Dorey here don't forget to check out
Adorama's latest competition to win some
amazing prizes right frames per second
now the frames per second rate that you
shooter is really important to your
footage all standard videos either run
25 or 24 frames a second this is the
number of pictures then the video takes
each second to give you a smooth
movement now if you shoot at 25 frames
per second and then play it back at 25
frames per second it runs at normal
speed if you shoot at 50 frames a second
and then play that video back at 25
frames a second your video will run at
half speed this is how you get slow
motion and this is why the frames per
second are so important when you're
shooting on your GoPro if you want super
slow-mo you can shoot a hundred frames
per second and that will allow you to
slow it down four times and still be a
really lovely smooth piece of video even
on the wvga setting you can shoot at 240
frames per second which will give you
super slow-mo I use this setting wvga at
240 frames per second to shoot this clip
of me trying to keep up with my daughter
on her bike the resolution is standard
definition but it's super slow-mo it's a
really really great option if you want
to capture and slow down fast action
let's talk about aspect ratio next very
briefly the aspect ratio is the shape of
your screen okay and on the GoPro you
can shoot in 17 by nine which is
widescreen format 16 by 9 which isn't
quite as wide or 4 by 3 now the sensor
on the GoPro is shaped four by three so
when you shoot in sixteen by nine and
we'll chop the top and bottom off the
frame to give you a wide frame picture
the same with 17 by nine so let's look
at the difference between sick
steam by nine and four by three in these
two clips when you play them
side-by-side it's quite obvious the clip
on the left is shot in ultra wide at
sixteen by nine at 1080 resolution while
the clip on the right is shot at 960
with an aspect ratio of four by three
what's interesting about the GoPro is
that you could also shoot in super view
now they say it's the most immersive
video picture available and actually it
is the reason for this is super view
uses the entire four by three sensor and
it stretches the sides so you get the
full height and the full width of the
sensor but with extra width so it shoots
in a sixteen by nine format it looks
super wide it's got super great quality
it's really lovely you can see this
really clearly in this clip see how
Charlie's arms to stretch each side of
her and we're able to see a lot more
Headroom and a lot further down her body
you're getting a really wide angle of
view sometimes you aren't going to be
able to get close enough to your subject
to be able to see everything that's when
you use your fields of view now on some
resolutions you've got options you can
shoot wide you can shoot medium and you
can shoot narrow fields of view this is
exactly the same as zooming in or
zooming out on a standard camera or
changing the lens at 1080 you can also
choose a range of frame rate with really
good quality that's useful for a range
of applications add to that the benefit
of being able to change the field of
view and actually it starts to be a
really good option for most productions
and when you consider you add super view
into that at 1080 and you can start to
see how this is a setting for most
things let's take a look at the 1080
superview again see how there's lots of
image top and bottom it really puts you
there in the action and even with the
Sun looking straight down the lens or
with a strong backlight it still holds
the picture quality it really is
astounding so if in doubt that's the one
to go for okay that's it for now next
time we'll look at taking our GoPros
underwater thanks for joining me on Adam
TV today don't forget the Adorama
Learning Center you can pick up more
tips and tricks on using all kinds of
photographic equipment and don't forget
to subscribe to adoramatv for more great
videos click on the link below finally
let us know what you think like share or
comment on our videos and if there's
anything you want to know just get in
touch see you next time
do you want great-looking prints at
low-cost be sure to visit our easy to
use online printing service adoramapix
has professionals who treat your images
with the utmost care that you can count
on for quick turnaround on photos cards
or albums use adoramapix.com